("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- Pelje, you're coming home!
- [Narrator] As the conflict
with the sheriff's soldiers
intensified, Noddle-Pete
suggested that Mattis and Borka
reconcile their differences
and unite their clans
as one band of robbers.
Then, they might stand a chance.
But a strong band calls
for a strong chief.
Mattis and Borka
would have to settle
in a wild beasts match who
would become that chief.
(groans)
- It's not fair!
Guys, hey!
(cheering)
I want to see what's happening!
(chuckles)
- You're taking a rest?
Already tired?
Well that was easy.
(laughs)
- [Man] Well done, Borka!
Now pummel him!
- What did you say?
Something about feeling
tired, or needing a rest?
When we were boys, you
always did need a nap.
Huh, fine I can wait.
[Lill-Klippen] Make him suffer!
- Borka!
(grunting)
(cheering)
- Amazing!
- Now it's getting interesting!
- Let go, let go, let go!
- [Borka] You
wanted me to let go.
(grunting)
(laughing)
- You're gonna regret that!
(chuckles)
- [Man] Somebody get some water!
- It's coming.
- Here, here, here,
here, here, here, there.
- [Man] And a one, and a two!
That's it, wake up Mattis!
- [Man] Come on, get
him, get him back!
(yelling)
- Don't let him do that!
- Oh that's pathetic!
- Boo boo boo!
- [Man] Mattis, chief,
get up and fight.
- [Man] Come on chief!
- Mattis, you really
shouldn't brag.
(cheering)
- Mattis could never beat Borka!
- Yes!
- Put your arm down.
The punches I can
take, but that smell.
(groans)
That smell is unbearable.
(cheering)
- Now's your chance,
squeeze him, squeeze him!
- [Man] Just squeeze him.
- [Man] Yeah squeeze
him hard, hard!
(gypsy music)
- No sign of them today.
- I know, we haven't
been robbed for ages.
- That's unfortunate.
Give us your treasure.
- [Man] Halt!
- [Jester] What's going on?
- [Minstrel] Maybe it's them.
- [Jester] They're
monsters, monsters!
- You're the monster!
(laughing)
- Stop that, be quiet.
Silence those instruments.
You're drawing too
much attention.
- Also, you're quite annoying.
- How dare you!
- Laughter and
music are relaxing.
- You are both totally
unsophisticated.
- Perhaps, but can't you hear?
The robbers sound
absolutely savage.
Listen.
- They certainly
don't sound human.
- For your own safety,
you should all turn back.
This path is too dangerous.
(distant roaring)
(grunting)
- You've almost got him!
- [All Three] That's
what we think of you!
- Oh that's!
That's the last straw!
- Wait, wait, stop
that, stop that.
Back off, back off!
I told you this
isn't your fight.
- Your men...
...are savages.
- Yes, but you can
be second in command
of those savages if you just
admit defeat, you dirty devil.
In the meantime, I'll just keep
squeezing the fat out of you.
(groaning)
Why don't you just
admit that I'm stronger?
You can't win!
Oh my nose!
- [Borka] I'm sorry
to do this to you now.
- What?
- But I'm going to
teach you a lesson.
You're lucky it's
not possible for you
to be any uglier
than you already are.
(laughs)
- Ow ow ow ow ow ow ow ow ow ow!
Don't pull them off,
don't pull them off!
I should feel bad.
Undis won't recognize you when
I've finished with your face.
Whose turn is it to be ugly now?
(crunching)
You must be kidding me!
(bird calling)
- There's no point
staying on guard duty,
not with all of this going on!
Mattis, I'll be right there!
(cheering)
- You...
...should give...
...up.
- You're a madman.
That's what I was going to say.
Undis?
(cheering)
- That was a cheap trick!
Lovis?
- As if I'd fall for-
(grunts)
- You don't know who
you're dealing with.
No one in this forest is
more stubborn than me!
- [All] Oh Mattis!
- Wait.
- One, two, three.
- Don't tell me
you're tired already?
Or maybe you forgot.
If you lose, I'm chief!
(chuckles)
- Over my dead body.
(cheering)
(panting)
- Hey, where are you all?
Oh.
(chanting Mattis)
Mattis!
Hang on, we're coming!
(cheering)
(chanting Mattis)
- Is he alive?
- You fought well, brother mine.
Now listen.
Because I'm a fair man,
I'm keeping my word.
As we agreed, your men
are welcome to stay on
and you shall keep your
title as a robber chief.
But now I lead you
all, and my word
counts for more than Borka's.
So remember, I am Mattis.
The mightiest chieftain.
The mightiest chieftain in all
the mountains and all the woods.
You and I are brothers now,
and we'll put this
fight behind us.
What do you say?
(dramatic music)
(cheering)
I still think you smell.
(laughing)
- You know what?
We've much in common.
You like a drink,
I like a drink.
- Rock wins again!
(laughing)
- And then she
said no I hit him.
(laughing)
- You're right.
Do you remember the pig sty?
Chasing rats all over the place.
- Yes!
Yes it was my job to
chase the rats out.
- Then I would get a
bucket upturned like this.
- And then I would
go like this, hah!
- We got him!
(laughing)
- Now for the good news.
Today you've suffered a loss.
But ultimately, your clan
will be the real winners.
One day when you and I
are no longer around,
your son will be chief
of both our clans.
Ronja has said she doesn't
want to be a robber.
Once her mind is made up,
there's no changing it.
So now you know.
You've won, old friend.
- I, I can't believe...
- Do you honestly
think Birk wants
to be a robber
chieftain like you two?
- Well he does, of course!
(laughing)
- Borka, I now make this oath.
That I, Birk Borkason,
will never become a robber.
(gasping)
- I know, it's hard to
get used to the idea.
But now you're gonna
have to as well.
You can't do anything
with children these days.
They do as they like.
We just have to get used to it.
(groans)
I know it's hard to take.
But that's just the way it is.
(laughing)
Our children won't
do as we ask them,
but we should carry on.
Enjoy our cheerful robber lives.
- Yes you're right.
(cheering)
(laughing)
- It's lovely not to have to
sit up there with the men folk.
Peace and quiet.
- Not to mention the smell.
(laughing)
(coughing)
(groans)
- There you go.
(laughs)
- I'm proud of you, Ronja.
You know a robber's life is
not as much fun as it once was.
It's no life for you and Birk.
It used to be fun,
but now it's tougher.
The soldiers will hang
you before you know it.
I couldn't bear to
think of what might
happen to you and Birk.
You're good kids.
You shouldn't be out
there robbing anyone.
- Yes, it's awful.
I wouldn't want anyone
to steal from me,
so why would I do
that to anyone else?
- Ronja.
I've got a secret I've
been waiting to tell.
Now listen very carefully.
I'll tell you, you
might need this one day.
There's a special place I know.
(whispering)
(pleasant music)
(snoring)
(groaning)
- Don't you care I'm in pain?
I'm aching!
Every single part of me!
My only hope is that Borka is
hurting even worse than I am!
What do you say?
- Oh you big baby, you'll
feel better in the morning.
(groans)
- [Narrator] And so the
two long feuding clans
were now united as one
strong band of robbers.
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter.
(upbeat music)
"The Call of Spring".
Don't miss it.
(pleasant music)